{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Sarah Stevens\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "sarahlrstevens.info"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Webpage
}}}
 \u8211- {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:sarah.lr.stevens@gmail.com"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
sarah.lr.stevens@gmail.com
}}}
 \u8211- {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/sstevens2/CV/blob/master/sstevens_CV.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
CV weblink
}}}
\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Education\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2012-2018 (expected)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b PhD, Microbiology Doctoral Training Program};\line University of Wisconsin - Madison\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 SciMed GRS Fellow\line MDTP Recruiting Commitee - {\b 2014-2015}\line MDTP Steering Committee - {\b 2015-2016}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2007-2011\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b Bachelor of Science - Molecular and Cellular Biology};\line University of Illinois Urbana - Champaign\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Minor in Informatics}\line James Scholar Honors\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Research Experience\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b University of Wisconsin - Madison, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://mcmahonlab.wisc.edu/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
McMahon Lab
}}}
}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Graduate Research Assistant - {\b 2012-Present}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Determining the forces that shape population structure and how wild bacterial populations change through time in lakes as a model system using reference genomes (composite genomes from metagenomes and single-cell genomes) for uncultivated but common freshwater bacteria and metagenomic time series from several lakes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b University of Illinois Urbana - Champaign, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://mcb.illinois.edu/faculty/profile/metcalf/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Metcalf Lab
}}}
}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Visiting Researcher - {\b 2011-2012}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Assembled genomes from isolates belonging to the archaeal genus {\i Methanosarcina} and analyzed shared genomic content of members of this genus.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b University of Illinois Urbana - Champaign, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://mcb.illinois.edu/faculty/profile/rwhitakr"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Whitaker Lab
}}}
}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Undergraduate Research Assistant - {\b 2010-2011}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Studied insertion sequences in {\i Sulfolobus} islandicus in an independent project, cultured archaea, organized sample/culture database, cleaned-up and prepped lab equipment.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Publications\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Garcia, S. L.*, {\b Stevens, S. L. R.}*, Crary, B., Martinez-Garcia, M., Stepanauskas, R., Woyke, T., Tringe, S. G., Andersson, S., Bertilsson, Malmstrom, R. R., McMahon, K. D. ({\i accepted at ISME Journal}). Contrasting patterns of genome-level diversity across distinct co-occurring freshwater bacterial populations. *Equal contributors\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 He, S., {\b Stevens, S. L. R.}, Chan, L.-K., Bertilsson, S., Glavina del Rio, T., Tringe, S. G., Malmstrom, R. R., McMahon, K. D. (2017). Ecophysiology of Freshwater Verrucomicrobia Inferred from Metagenome-Assembled Genomes. mSphere. doi:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1128/mSphere.00277-17"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
10.1128/mSphere.00277-17
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Bendall, M. L.*, {\b Stevens, S. L. R.}*, Chan, L.-K., Malfatti, S., Schwientek, P., Tremblay, J., Schackwitz, W., Martin, J., Pati, A., Bushnell, B., Froula, J., Kang, D., Tringe, S. G., Bertilsson, S., Moran, M. A., Shade, A., Newton, R. J., McMahon, K. D., Malmstrom, R. R. (2016). Genome-wide selective sweeps and gene-specific sweeps in natural bacterial populations. ISMEJ. doi:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1038/ismej.2015.241"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
10.1038/ismej.2015.241
}}}
 {\b featured article}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 *Equal contributors\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Organizations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://software-carpentry.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Software Carpentry
}}}
 {\b and} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.datacarpentry.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Data Carpentry
}}}
\line {\i Instructor} - {\b 2015-Present}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://goo.gl/Pf57mb"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Computational Biology, Ecology, and Evolution (ComBEE)
}}}
 group\line {\i Founder/Co-Chair} - {\b 2014-2017}\line - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://goo.gl/Pf57mb"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
ComBEE
}}}
 provides an opportunity for researchers to discuss new computational tools and learn bioinformatics skills together.\line - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://goo.gl/8fcWc3"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
ComBEE Python Study Group
}}}
 - {\b 2014-2017}\line - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://goo.gl/xKfLHf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
ComBEE R Study Group
}}}
 - {\b 2015-2017}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/datacarpentry/genomics-hackathon"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Data Carpentry Genomics Hack-a-thon
}}}
\line {\i Contributor} - {\b Mar. 23-25, 2015}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://jgi.doe.gov/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
DOE Joint Genome Institute
}}}
\line {\i Intern/Affiliate} - {\b Jan. 2015-Mar. 2015}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Teaching\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://software-carpentry.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Software Carpentry
}}}
 Workshop - University of Wisconsin - Madison\line {\i Instructor} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://uw-madison-aci.github.io/2016-01-14-uwmadison/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Jan. 14-15, 2016}
}}}
, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://uw-madison-aci.github.io/2016-06-08-uwmadison/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Jun. 08-09, 2016}
}}}
, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://uw-madison-aci.github.io/2017-01-12-uwmadison/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Jan. 12-13, 2017}
}}}
\line {\i Helper} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/UW-Madison-ACI/boot-camps/blob/2015-01-13/README.md"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Jan. 13-16, 2015}
}}}
, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/UW-Madison-ACI/boot-camps/blob/2015-06-03/README.md"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Jun. 3-4, 2015}
}}}
, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://uw-madison-aci.github.io/2016-08-29-uwmadison/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Aug. 29-30, 2016}
}}}
, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://uw-madison-aci.github.io/2017-06-28-uwmadison-swc/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Jun. 28-29, 2017}
}}}
, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://uw-madison-aci.github.io/2017-08-30-uwmadison-swc/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Aug. 30-31, 2017}
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.datacarpentry.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Data Carpentry
}}}
 Workshop - University of Wisconsin - Madison\line {\i Instructor} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://uw-madison-aci.github.io/2017-01-10-uwmadison/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Jan. 10-11, 2017}
}}}
, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://uw-madison-aci.github.io/2017-08-22-uwmadison-dc/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Aug. 22-23, 2017}
}}}
\line {\i Helper} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://uw-madison-aci.github.io/2016-01-11-uwmadison/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Jan. 11-12, 2016}
}}}
, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://uw-madison-aci.github.io/2016-06-01-uwmadison/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Jun. 01-02, 2016}
}}}
, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://uw-madison-aci.github.io/2017-06-19-uwmadison-dc/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Jun. 19-20, 2017}
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://software-carpentry.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Software Carpentry
}}}
 Workshop - Federal Reserve Bank, Chicago\line {\i Instructor} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://sarahlrstevens.info/2017-08-02-chicago-frb/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Aug. 2-3, 2017}
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://sites.google.com/a/wisc.edu/combee"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
ComBEE
}}}
 Anvio Workshop 2017 - University of Wisconsin - Madison\line {\i Instructor} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://public.etherpad-mozilla.org/p/2017-05-24-combee-anvio"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b May. 24, 2017}
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://sites.google.com/a/wisc.edu/combee"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
ComBEE
}}}
 Git/Github Workshop - University of Wisconsin - Madison\line {\i Instructor} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://sstevens2.github.io/git-novice-mod/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Mar. 2-3, 2017}
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://software-carpentry.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Software Carpentry
}}}
 Instructor Training - University of Wisconsin - Madison\line {\i Helper} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://uw-madison-aci.github.io/2016-10-24-ttt-uwmadison/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Oct. 24-25, 2016}
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://software-carpentry.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Software Carpentry
}}}
 Workshop - University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee\line {\i Instructor} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://sstevens2.github.io/2016-04-25-UW-mke/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Apr. 25-26, 2016}
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://software-carpentry.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Software Carpentry
}}}
 Workshop - Northwestern University\line {\i Instructor} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://xuf12.github.io/2015-11-10-northwesternu/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b Nov. 10-11, 2015}
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 McMahon Lab Git Workshop\line {\i Instructor} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/McMahonLab/git_wksp/tree/2015-summer#mcmahon-lab-git-workshop"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\b July 2015}
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Bioinformatics Basics: Microbial Ecology and Evolution - Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy Intersession\line {\i Instructor/Course Designer} - {\b Jan. 2015}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Microbiology 304: Biology of Microorganisms Laboratory - University of Wisconsin - Madison\line {\i Teaching Assistant/Instructor} - {\b Fall 2013}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Oral Presentations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Stevens, S. L. R.} Starting Your Own Study Group. Rebecca J. Holz series in Research Data Management. October 2016. Madison, WI. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://researchdata.wisc.edu/news/october-2016-brown-bag-sarah-stevens/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Link to Webpage/Slides
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Stevens, S. L. R.}, Bendall, M. L., Chan, L.-K., Malfatti, S., Schwientek, P., Tremblay, J., \u8230? McMahon, K. D. Malmstrom, R. R. Tracking Microbial Populations Through Time Using Single-cell Genomes and Metagenomics. UW Center for Limnology Seminar. December 2015. Madison, WI. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://goo.gl/0ge2LZ"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Link to Slides
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Stevens, S. L. R.}, Bendall, M. L., Chan, L.-K., Malfatti, S., Schwientek, P., Tremblay, J., \u8230? McMahon, K. D. Malmstrom, R. R. Genome-wide and Gene-specific Selective Sweeps in Freshwater Bacterial Populations Revealed Using Metagenomics. JF Crow Institute for the Study of Evolution Seminar Series. October 2015. Madison, WI. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://goo.gl/oSnDYG"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Link to Slides
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Stevens, S. L. R.}, Bendall, M. L., Chan, L.-K., Malfatti, S., Schwientek, P., Tremblay, J., \u8230? McMahon, K. D. Malmstrom, R. R. Genome-wide and Gene-specific Selective Sweeps in Freshwater Bacterial Populations Revealed Using Metagenomics. 14 Symposium Society for Aquatic Microbial Ecology. August 2015. Uppsala, Sweden {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://goo.gl/RcrxhJ"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Link to Slides
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Stevens, S. L. R.}, Bendall, M. L., Chan, L.-K., Malfatti, S., Schwientek, P., Tremblay, J., \u8230? McMahon, K. D. Malmstrom, R. R. Genome-wide Selective Sweeps in Natural Bacterial Populations Revealed by Time-series Metagenomics. 15th International Symposium on Microbial Ecology. August 2014. Seoul, South Korea. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://goo.gl/6iunz0"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Link to Slides
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Poster Presentations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Stevens, S. L. R.}, Egan, R., Malmstrom, R.R., McMahon, K. D. Comparative Genomics of Selected Bacterial Populations from Several Freshwater Bog Lakes. 2017 Microbial Population Biology Gordon Research Conference. July 2017. Andover, NH. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://goo.gl/ZRSh9W"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Link to Poster
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Stevens, S. L. R.}, Egan, R., Malmstrom, R.R., McMahon, K. D. Comparative Genomics of Selected Bacterial Populations from Several Freshwater Bog Lakes. 2017 Microbial Population Biology Gordon Research Seminar. July 2017. Andover, NH. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://goo.gl/ZRSh9W"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Link to Poster
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Stevens, S. L. R.}, Garcia, S. L., \u8230? McMahon, K. D. Contrasting Patterns fo Genome-level Diversity across Distinct Co-occurring Populations. 16th International Symposium on Microbial Ecology. August 2016. Montreal, Canada. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://goo.gl/8JGS52"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Link to Poster
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Stevens, S. L. R.}, Garcia, S. L., \u8230? McMahon, K. D. Tracking Distinct Freshwater Populations Through Time by Mapping Metagenomes to Single-cell Genomes. DOE Joint Genome Institute User Meeting 2016. Walnut Creek, CA. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://goo.gl/ShUQVn"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Link to Poster
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Stevens, S. L. R.}, Bendall, M. L., \u8230? McMahon, K. D. Malmstrom, R. R. Genome-wide and Gene-specific Selective Sweeps in Freshwater Bacterial Populations Revealed Using Metagenomics. 2015 Microbial Population Biology Gordon Research Conference. July 2015. Andover, NH. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://goo.gl/rwaFKV"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Link to Poster
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Stevens, S. L. R.}, Bendall, M. L., \u8230? McMahon, K. D. Malmstrom, R. R. Dynamics of Sequence-Discrete Bacterial Populations Inferred Using Metagenomes. 15th International Symposium on Microbial Ecology. August 2014. Seoul, South Korea. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://goo.gl/qsYL32"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Link to Poster
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Stevens, S. L. R.}, Bendall, M. L., \u8230? McMahon, K. D. Malmstrom, R. R. Dynamics of Sequence-Discrete Bacterial Populations Inferred Using Metagenomes. SciMed GRS Poster Session 2014. September 2014. Madison, WI.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Stevens, S. L. R.}, Bendall, M. L., \u8230? McMahon, K. D. Malmstrom, R. R. Dynamics of Sequence-Discrete Bacterial Populations Inferred Using Metagenomes. DOE Joint Genome Institute User Meeting 2014. Walnut Creek, CA. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://goo.gl/1voTvB"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Link to Poster
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Awards\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 UW-Madison Dept. of Bacteriology Travel Award - {\b Spring 2017}\line UW-Madison Dept. of Bacteriology Betley-Allen Fellowship - {\b 2016-2017}\line UW-Madison Graduate School Travel Award - {\b Fall 2015}\line UW-Madison Dept. of Bacteriology Travel Award - {\b Spring 2014}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 Sarah Stevens \u8211- {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:sarahlrstevens@gmail.com"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
sarahlrstevens@gmail.com
}}}
 \u8211- {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "sarahlrstevens.info"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
sarahlrstevens.info
}}}
\par}
}
